Add cvmfsexec (SOFTWARE-4549) (#9)
opensciencegrid/osgvo-docker-pilot: README.md

5. Optional: add to the START expression with `GLIDEIN_Start_Extra`. This is useful to limit
   the pilot to only run certain jobs.

In addition, you will be able to run more OSG jobs if you provide CVMFS.  You can do this
in two ways:

1. Mount CVMFS on the host and bind-mount it into the container by adding `-v /cvmfs:/cvmfs:shared`.
   This is the preferred mechanism.
2. Use cvmfsexec as described in [the cvmfsexec section below](#cvmfs-without-a-bind-mount-using-cvmfsexec).

> Note: Supporting Singularity jobs inside the container will require the capabilities

Reviewer: No, this is still confused.  The same options needed for cvmfsexec work for singularity.  You either need to list the capabilities, use --privileged, or use the options for unprivileged.  I'm sorry I didn't make that clear; in fact I didn't realize that the discussion was distinct.

I suggest listing the 3 options here and not mention them under cvmfsexec.

Author: OK, I ended up skipping --privileged and just using the capabilities for both the bind-mount- and the cvmfsexec-based commands, and said that for cvmfsexec you need to add `--device=/dev/fuse`. I rebuilt the container to get cvmfsexec 4.8 and it works fine.

Do the changes look good?

5. Optional: add to the START expression with `GLIDEIN_Start_Extra`. This is useful to limit
   the pilot to only run certain jobs.

In addition, you will be able to run more OSG jobs if you provide CVMFS.  You can do this
in two ways:

1. Mount CVMFS on the host and bind-mount it into the container by adding `-v /cvmfs:/cvmfs:shared`.
   This is the preferred mechanism.
2. Use cvmfsexec as described in [the cvmfsexec section below](#cvmfs-without-a-bind-mount-using-cvmfsexec).

Note: Supporting Singularity jobs inside the container will require the capabilities
DAC_OVERRIDE, DAC_READ_SEARCH, SETGID, SETUID, SYS_ADMIN, SYS_CHROOT, and SYS_PTRACE.

Example invocation utilizing a token for authentication and bind-mounting CVMFS:

```
docker run -it --rm --user osg \
       --cap-add=DAC_OVERRIDE --cap-add=SETUID --cap-add=SETGID \
       --cap-add=DAC_READ_SEARCH \
       --cap-add=SYS_ADMIN --cap-add=SYS_CHROOT --cap-add=SYS_PTRACE \
       -v /cvmfs:/cvmfs:shared \

>        -v /path/to/token:/etc/condor/tokens-orig.d/flock.opensciencegrid.org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       -v /path/to/token:/etc/condor/tokens-orig.d/flock.opensciencegrid.org \
```

5. Optional: add to the START expression with `GLIDEIN_Start_Extra`. This is useful to limit
   the pilot to only run certain jobs.

In addition, you will be able to run more OSG jobs if you provide CVMFS.  You can do this
in two ways:

1. Mount CVMFS on the host and bind-mount it into the container by adding `-v /cvmfs:/cvmfs:shared`.
   This is the preferred mechanism.
2. Use cvmfsexec as described in [the cvmfsexec section below](#cvmfs-without-a-bind-mount-using-cvmfsexec).

Note: Supporting Singularity jobs inside the container will require the capabilities

> DAC_OVERRIDE, DAC_READ_SEARCH, SETGID, SETUID, SYS_ADMIN, SYS_CHROOT, and SYS_PTRACE.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`DAC_OVERRIDE`, `DAC_READ_SEARCH`, `SETGID`, `SETUID`, `SYS_ADMIN`, `SYS_CHROOT`, and `SYS_PTRACE`.
```

```

## CVMFS Without a Bind-Mount Using cvmfsexec

If you don't have CVMFS available on the host, the container can still make
CVMFS available by using [cvmfsexec](https://github.com/cvmfs/cvmfsexec#readme).

> This will require a kernel version >= 3.10.0-1127 on an EL7-compatible host
> or >= 4.18 on an EL8-compatible host, or user namespaces enabled by hand --

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will require a kernel version >= 3.10.0-1127 on an EL7-compatible host with user namespaces enabled
or >= 4.18 on an EL8-compatible host --
```

see the cvmfsexec README linked above for details.

This will also require granting the container some additional privileges, which
you can do in one of two ways:

1.  Add `--privileged` to the `docker run` invocation.

2.  Add
    `--security-opt seccomp=unconfined --security-opt systempaths=unconfined --device=/dev/fuse`
    to the `docker run` invocation.

> The second option will add only the minimum necessary privileges for cvmfsexec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second option will add only the minimum necessary privileges for cvmfsexec.  You can add additional security to that option by also adding `--security-opt no-new-privileges`.
```

Using cvmfsexec takes place in the entrypoint, which means it will still happen
even if you specify a different command to run, such as `bash`.  You can bypass
the entrypoint by passing `--entrypoint <cmd>` where `<cmd>` is some different
command to run, e.g. `--entrypoint bash`.  Setting the entrypoint this way
clears the command.

There are several environment variables you can set for cvmfsexec:

> -   `NO_CVMFSEXEC` - set this to disable cvmfsexec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `NO_CVMFSEXEC` - set this to any non-empty value to disable cvmfsexec.
```

-   `CVMFSEXEC_REPOS` - this is a comma-separated list of CVMFS repos to mount, if using cvmfsexec.
    Set this to blank to avoid using cvmfsexec, in which case you won't need to
    add the above permissions to your container.  The default is to mount the
    OASIS repo (oasis.opensciencegrid.org).

> -   `CVMFS_HTTP_PROXY` - this sets the proxy to use for CVMFS; leave this blank
>     to find the best one via wlcg-lpad.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `CVMFS_HTTP_PROXY` - this sets the proxy to use for CVMFS; if left blank
    it will find the best one via WLCG Web Proxy Auto Discovery.
```

-   `CVMFS_QUOTA_LIMIT` - the quota limit in MB for CVMFS; leave this blank to
    use the system default (4 GB)

You can store the cache outside of the container by bind-mounting a directory
to `/cvmfs-cache`.
You can store the logs outside of the container by bind-mounting a directory to
`/cvmfs-logs`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize cvmfs further by bind-mounting a file on
`/cvmfsexec/dist/etc/cvmfs/default.local`.
```

Reviewer: Oh but now I realize this won't work because of the tarball extraction.  You would have to choose another path.  How about `/cvmfsexec/default.local` and then look for that and copy it into the final path if present.

Author: Sure, that would work. If you bind-mount `/cvmfsexec/default.local` but also set the environment variables such as `CVMFS_HTTP_PROXY`, which should win?

Reviewer: I think you could do it whichever way is more convenient.  I would guess given your current implementation that the variables would win.

Here is an example invocation using a token for authentication, using cvmfsexec
instead of bind-mounting `/cvmfs`, sending the cache to `/var/cache/cvmfsexec`
and the logs to `/var/log/cvmfsexec`:

```
docker run -it --rm --user osg \
       --cap-add=DAC_OVERRIDE --cap-add=SETUID --cap-add=SETGID \
       --cap-add=CAP_DAC_READ_SEARCH \

>        --cap-add=SYS_ADMIN --cap-add=SYS_CHROOT --cap-add=SYS_PTRACE \

Reviewer: These capabilities are almost as bad as --privileged, especially SYS_ADMIN.  They should be unnecessary if you are using the options for low privilege.

Author: I copied these from the original example (which bind-mounted CVMFS). Perhaps @rynge would know why all of those are needed?

Reviewer: It was an attempt to do something less than `--privileged` but they didn't know about the completely unprivileged option.

       --security-opt seccomp=unconfined \
       --security-opt systempaths=unconfined \
       --device=/dev/fuse \
       -v /var/cache/cvmfsexec:/cvmfsexec-cache \
       -v /var/log/cvmfsexec:/cvmfsexec-logs \
       -e TOKEN="..." \
       -e GLIDEIN_Site="..." \
       -e GLIDEIN_ResourceName="..." \
       -e GLIDEIN_Start_Extra="True" \
       -e OSG_SQUID_LOCATION="..." \
       opensciencegrid/osgvo-docker-pilot:latest
```

If cvmfsexec does not have the required privileges, the container will fail.
cvmfsexec will not be used if:
- /cvmfs is already available via bind-mount
- `CVMFSEXEC_REPOS` is empty

> - `NO_CVMFSEXEC` is set

Reviewer: Make clear this is an "or" list and not an "and" list.  Why have both NO_CVMFSEXEC and CVMFSEXEC_REPOS empty to disable?  Isn't NO_CVMFSEXEC redundant?

```

## CVMFS Without a Bind-Mount Using cvmfsexec

If you don't have CVMFS available on the host, the container can still make
CVMFS available by using [cvmfsexec](https://github.com/cvmfs/cvmfsexec#readme).

You will need to specify a list of CVMFS repos to mount in the environment
variable `CVMFSEXEC_REPOS`.
This will require a kernel version >= 3.10.0-1127 on an EL7-compatible host
with user namespaces enabled or >= 4.18 on an EL8-compatible host --
see the cvmfsexec README linked above for details.

This will also require granting the container some additional privileges, which
you can do in one of two ways:

1.  Add `--privileged` to the `docker run` invocation.

2.  Add
    `--security-opt seccomp=unconfined --security-opt systempaths=unconfined --device=/dev/fuse`

>     to the `docker run` invocation.

Reviewer 2: What's the use case for 1 vs 2?

Reviewer: The first case is if system admins are comfortable with the risk and don't want to enable unprivileged user namespaces.  The second case is less risky but requires enabling unprivileged user namespaces.

Author: 2 uses fewer privileges but it might not be possible to do in Kubernetes (seccomp requires the cluster admin to set something up, and I found absolutely nothing on systempaths).

Reviewer 2: @matyasselmeci please elaborate on 1 vs 2 using your + Dave's comments

```

## CVMFS Without a Bind-Mount Using cvmfsexec

If you don't have CVMFS available on the host, the container can still make
CVMFS available by using [cvmfsexec](https://github.com/cvmfs/cvmfsexec#readme).

You will need to specify a list of CVMFS repos to mount in the environment
variable `CVMFSEXEC_REPOS`.

On EL7, you must have kernel version >= 3.10.0-1127 (run `rpm -q kernel` to check),

> and user namespaces enabled.  On EL8, you must have kernel version >= 4.18.

Reviewer 2: For user namespaces, maybe we should point people to step 1 here https://opensciencegrid.org/docs/worker-node/install-singularity/#enabling-unprivileged-singularity?

> See the cvmfsexec README linked above for details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the [cvmfsexec README](https://github.com/cvmfs/cvmfsexec#readme) details.
```

May as well save people from having to hunt for the link

command to run, e.g. `--entrypoint bash`.  Setting the entrypoint this way
clears the command.

There are several environment variables you can set for cvmfsexec:

-   `CVMFSEXEC_REPOS` - this is a comma-separated list of CVMFS repos to mount,
    if using cvmfsexec; leave this blank to disable cvmfsexec.
    OSG jobs frequently use the OASIS repo (`oasis.opensciencegrid.org`) and
    the singularity repo (`singularity.opensciencegrid.org`).

-   `CVMFS_HTTP_PROXY` - this sets the proxy to use for CVMFS; if left blank
    it will find the best one via WLCG Web Proxy Auto Discovery.

-   `CVMFS_QUOTA_LIMIT` - the quota limit in MB for CVMFS; leave this blank to
    use the system default (4 GB)

You can add other CVMFS options by bind-mounting a config file over
`/cvmfsexec/default.local`; note that options in environment variables are preferred
over options in `/cvmfsexec/default.local`.

You can store the cache outside of the container by bind-mounting a directory
to `/cvmfs-cache`.
You can store the logs outside of the container by bind-mounting a directory to
`/cvmfs-logs`.

cvmfsexec requires the additional options `--device=/dev/fuse` and

> (for Docker) `--security-opt=seccomp=unconfined`.  Supporting Singularity

Reviewer 2: I don't understand what this parenthetical is referring to

jobs when using cvmfsexec requires privileged containers (`--privileged`).

Here is an example invocation using a token for authentication, using cvmfsexec
to mount the OASIS and singularity repos instead of bind-mounting `/cvmfs`,
sending the cache to `/var/cache/cvmfsexec` and the logs to

> `/var/log/cvmfsexec`, and adding support for Singularity jobs:

Reviewer 2: We should clarify that these paths are on the host

You can add other CVMFS options by bind-mounting a config file over
`/cvmfsexec/default.local`; note that options in environment variables are preferred
over options in `/cvmfsexec/default.local`.

You can store the cache outside of the container by bind-mounting a directory
to `/cvmfs-cache`.
You can store the logs outside of the container by bind-mounting a directory to
`/cvmfs-logs`.

cvmfsexec requires the additional options `--device=/dev/fuse` and
(for Docker) `--security-opt=seccomp=unconfined`.

Here is an example invocation using a token for authentication, using cvmfsexec
to mount the OASIS and singularity repos instead of bind-mounting `/cvmfs`,
sending the cache to `/var/cache/cvmfsexec` and the logs to
`/var/log/cvmfsexec`, and adding support for Singularity jobs:

```
docker run -it --rm --user osg \
       --cap-add=DAC_OVERRIDE --cap-add=SETUID --cap-add=SETGID \
       --cap-add=DAC_READ_SEARCH \
       --cap-add=SYS_ADMIN --cap-add=SYS_CHROOT --cap-add=SYS_PTRACE \
       --device=/dev/fuse \
       --security-opt=seccomp=unconfined \
       -v /var/cache/cvmfsexec:/cvmfsexec-cache \
       -v /var/log/cvmfsexec:/cvmfsexec-logs \

>        -v /path/to/token:/etc/condor/tokens-orig.d/flock.opensciencegrid.org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       -v /path/to/token:/etc/condor/tokens-orig.d/flock.opensciencegrid.org \
```

clears the command.

There are several environment variables you can set for cvmfsexec:

-   `CVMFSEXEC_REPOS` - this is a comma-separated list of CVMFS repos to mount,
    if using cvmfsexec; leave this blank to disable cvmfsexec.
    OSG jobs frequently use the OASIS repo (`oasis.opensciencegrid.org`) and
    the singularity repo (`singularity.opensciencegrid.org`).

-   `CVMFS_HTTP_PROXY` - this sets the proxy to use for CVMFS; if left blank
    it will find the best one via WLCG Web Proxy Auto Discovery.

-   `CVMFS_QUOTA_LIMIT` - the quota limit in MB for CVMFS; leave this blank to
    use the system default (4 GB)

You can add other CVMFS options by bind-mounting a config file over
`/cvmfsexec/default.local`; note that options in environment variables are preferred
over options in `/cvmfsexec/default.local`.

You can store the cache outside of the container by bind-mounting a directory
to `/cvmfs-cache`.
You can store the logs outside of the container by bind-mounting a directory to
`/cvmfs-logs`.

cvmfsexec requires the additional options `--device=/dev/fuse` and
`--security-opt=seccomp=unconfined`.  Supporting Singularity jobs when using

> cvmfsexec requires privileged containers (`--privileged`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cvmfsexec requires privileged containers (`--privileged`).  Using privileged containers avoids the need for those two additional options and all the `--cap-add` options without adding much risk so it is recommended.
```
